Create haos_common_tasks.markdown (#14558)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/hassio/haos_common_tasks.markdown

To use the add-on, enter a password or public key on its configuration page, then save and start the add-on. 

The Terminal & SSH add-on also provides a web terminal which allows you to access a terminal via the Home Assistant user interface. In order to access from an ssh client, a port needs to be entered in the network section of the add-on's configuration page.

---

### Installing and using the Visual Studio Code (VSC) add-on

The Visual Studio Code add-on provides access through a feature packed web-based version of the Visual Studio Code editor and currently only supports AMD64 and aarch64/ARM64 machines. This add-on can be installed in the add-on store from the Community add-on repository. The add-on also provides access to the Home Assistant Command Line Interface (CLI) using VSC's built in terminal, which allows for checking logs, stopping and starting Home Assistant and add-ons, creating/restoring snapshots, and more. (See [Home Assistant via Command Line](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/commandline/) for further info).

> There is no configuration required for editing files within your /config directory. In order to enable access to other directories, it is necessary to edit the add-on's configuration from its configuration tab. See the add-on documentation for details. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no configuration required for editing files within your `/config` directory. In order to enable access to other directories, it is necessary to edit the add-on's configuration from its configuration tab. See the add-on documentation for details. 
```

---

### Installing and using the File Editor add-on

A more basic and light weight alternative to Visual Studio Code, the File Editor add-on provides access through Hass-Configurator, which is a web-based filesystem-browser and text-editor. YAML files are automatically checked for syntax errors while editing. This add-on can be installed via the add-on store from the official add-on repository.

> There is no configuration required for editing files within your /config directory. In order to enable access to further directories, editing the add-on configuration is required. See the add-on documentation for details. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no configuration required for editing files within your `/config` directory. In order to enable access to further directories, editing the add-on configuration is required. See the add-on documentation for details. 
```

---

This section will provide guides to some common tasks and information which you will need in order to run, maintain, and edit your Home Assistant OS system. For further details on any particular subject, make sure to refer to the documentation for specific add-ons or topics listed here.

## Configuring access to files

Your Home Assistant Operating server includes two repositories by default: The official core add-on repository, and the community add-on repository. All of the add-ons mentioned here can be installed by navigating to the add-on store using Supervisor > Add-on Store in the UI.

One of the first things to take care of after installing Home Assistant OS is to provide yourself access to files. There are several add-ons commonly used for this, and most users employ a mix of various add-ons. Default directories on the host are mapped to the add-ons so that they can be accessed by the services any particular add-on might provide. On the host system these directories exist on the `/data` partition at `/mnt/data/supervisor/`. 

Using any of the add-ons listed below,the following directories are made available for access:

> - addons
> - backup
> - config
> - media
> - share
> - ssl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `addons`
- `backup`
- `config`
- `media`
- `share`
- `ssl`
```

---

## Home Assistant OS Snapshots

Snapshots are a compressed archive file (.tar) of your Home Assistant configuration, in addition to any add-on data and configuration. These are easily made in Home Assistant OS from the Supervisor Snapshot panel and are also available as services which can be used in automations. They can be created from the UI or the CLI (see below) and are stored in the /backup directory.

A full snapshot includes the following directories:

* config
* share
* add-ons (these are manually installed or created add-ons, and not those installed from the store)
* ssl
* media

A partial snapshot consists of any number of the above default directories and installed add-ons.

### Making a Snapshot from the UI

1. Go to Supervisor > Snapshots in the UI
2. Provide a name for the snapshot.
3. Choose full or partial.
4. Choose to password protect or not. Password protected snapshots cannot easily be browsed outside of Home Assistant OS
5. Click "Create" to begin the snapshot.

### Restoring a Snapshot on a new install

> Restoring a snapshot on a fresh install of Home Assistant OS requires that you first upload the snapshot to the backup directory on the new instance. From the Supervisor Snapshot panel, these can be uploaded using the following steps:

Reviewer 2: in 2 days when 0.116 drops this entire section should be rewritten since you now can do that from the onboarding.

> * config
> * share
> * addons (these are manually installed or created add-ons, and not those installed from the store)
> * ssl
> * media

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `config`
* `share`
* `addons` (only manually installed or created add-ons, not those installed from the store)
* `ssl`
* `media`
```

1. Go to Supervisor > Snapshots in the UI 
2. Select "Upload Snapshot" from the icon in the upper right of the page.
3. Click on the folder icon to navigate to your snapshot .tar file

> When the upload is completed, the snapshot panel should display your newly uploaded file. If not, use the "Reload" option from the icon in the upper right of the page. From there you can select it and then choose to restore it in full or in part, by manually selecting individual folders or add-ons.

Reviewer 2: After upload, you are presented with the snapshot dialog for the snapshot you uploaded, no need to reload or click the correct snapshot.

---

This section will provide guides to some common tasks and information which you will need in order to run, maintain, and edit your Home Assistant OS system. For further details on any particular subject, make sure to refer to the documentation for specific add-ons or topics listed here.

## Configuring access to files

One of the first things to take care of after installing Home Assistant OS is to provide yourself access to files. There are several add-ons commonly used for this, and most users employ a mix of various add-ons. Default directories on the host are mapped to the add-ons so that they can be accessed by the services any particular add-on might provide. On the host system these directories exist on the `/data` partition at `/mnt/data/supervisor/`. 

Using any of the add-ons listed below,the following directories are made available for access:

- addons
- backup
- config
- media
- share
- ssl

---

### Installing and using the Samba add-on

The Samba add-on creates smb shares which can be accessed from another computer. You can also edit files using the editor of your preference from your client computer.

> Configuring the add-on is straight-forward. You only need to set a user and password of your choice on the configuration page, save, and then start the add-on. The add-on will not start without setting a password!

Reviewer: Avoid using the word `straight-forward`. You're insulting the user in case they cannot figure it out. 

Also mention here that they have to install it from the add-on store.

> For connecting from Windows 10, you can enter the IP address or hostname of your Home Assistant instance in File Explorer's address bar with two backslashes, as shown in the example screenshot.

Reviewer: Before you add instructions for Windows/Mac, add a paragraph explaining where users can find their IP address (supervisor -> config)

![directories](TBD image of directories.jpg)

For OS X, connecting to the shares is a matter of using the Finder menu > Go > Connect to Server...
You would then enter the IP address of your Home Assistant OS instance as `smb://your.ha.ip.address` and enter your credentials when prompted.

---

### Installing and using the SSH add-on (requires enabling advanced mode for the HA user)

The Terminal & SSH add-on provides access over an ssh connection, and also inludes nano and vi editors.  In addition, it provides access to the Home Assistant Command Line Interface (CLI) which provides custom commands for checking logs, stopping and starting Home Assistant and add-ons, creating/restoring snapshots, and more. (See [Home Assistant via Command Line](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/commandline/) for further info). The Terminal & SSH add-on does *not* provide access to the underlying host file system.

> To use the add-on, enter a password or public key on the configuration page, then save and start the add-on. In order to access from an ssh client, a port needs to be entered in the network section of the add-on's configuration page.

Reviewer: Mention that we need to install it and how.

Reviewer: Or at the top we should mention that all of these add-ons can be found in the add-on store. In that case, you need to this, and similar paragraphs with a mention that it needs to be installed:
```suggestion
To use the add-on after installing it from the add-on store, enter a password or public key on the configuration page, then save and start the add-on. In order to access from an ssh client, a port needs to be entered in the network section of the add-on's configuration page.
```

Author: I did a little of both. It is mentioned within "Configuring access to files" at the top, and individually for each add-on.

> By default the Terminal & SSH addon provides a web terminal which can be added as an item to your side-panel. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Terminal & SSH addon also provides a web terminal which allows you to access a terminal via the Home Assistant user interface.
```

---

### Installing and using the Visual Studio Code (VSC) add-on

> The Visual Studio Code add-on provides access through a feature packed web-based version of the VSC editor and currently only supports AMD64 and aarch64/ARM64 machines. The add-on also provides access to the Home Assistant Command Line Interface (CLI) using VSC's built in terminal, which allows for checking logs, stopping and starting Home Assistant and add-ons, creating/restoring snapshots, and more. (See [Home Assistant via Command Line](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/commandline/) for further info).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Visual Studio Code add-on provides access through a feature packed web-based version of the Visual Studio Code editor (VSC) and currently only supports AMD64 and aarch64/ARM64 machines. The add-on also provides access to the Home Assistant Command Line Interface (CLI) using VSC's built in terminal, which allows for checking logs, stopping and starting Home Assistant and add-ons, creating/restoring snapshots, and more. (See [Home Assistant via Command Line](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/commandline/) for further info).
```

There is no configuration required for editing files within your /config directory. In order to enable access to further directories, editing the add-on configuration is required. See the add-on documentation for details. 

---

### Installing and using the File Editor add-on

A more basic and light weight alternative to Visual Studio Code, the File Editor add-on provides access through Hass-Configurator, which is a web-based filesystem-browser and text-editor. YAML files are automatically checked for syntax errors while editing.

There is no configuration required for editing files within your /config directory. In order to enable access to further directories, editing the add-on configuration is required. See the add-on documentation for details. 

---

## Home Assistant OS Snapshots

> Snapshots are a compressed archive file (.tar) of your Home Assistant configuration, in addition to any add-on data and configuration. These are easily made in Home Assistant OS from the Supervisor Snapshot panel and are also available as services which can be used in automations. They can be created from the UI or the CLI (see below) and are stored in the /backup directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Snapshots are a backup of your Home Assistant and addon data and configuration. It is stored in a compressed archive file (.tar). Snapshots are made from the Supervisor Snapshot panel. There is also a service available so you trigger the creation of a snapshot from an automation. Backups are stored in the /backup directory.
```

A full snapshot includes the following directories:

* config
* share
* addons (these are manually installed or created add-ons, and not those installed from the store)
* ssl
* media

A partial snapshot consists of any number of the above default directories and installed add-ons.

### Making a Snapshot from the UI

1. Go to Supervisor > Snapshots in the UI
2. Provide a name for the snapshot.
3. Choose full or partial.
4. Choose to password protect or not. Password protected snapshots cannot easily be browsed outside of Home Assistant OS
5. Click "Create" to begin the snapshot.

### Restoring a Snapshot on a new install

> You can restore a snapshot during on a new installation during the onboarding process. Follow the link at the bottom of the account creation page to upload your snapshot from a previous installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can restore a snapshot on a new installation during the onboarding process. Follow the link at the bottom of the account creation page to upload your snapshot from a previous installation.
```

For restoring a snapshot at any other time, vist the Supervisor Snapshot panel in your UI and use the following steps:

1. Select "Upload Snapshot" from the icon in the upper right of the page.
1. Click on the folder icon to navigate to your snapshot .tar file

When the upload is completed, you will be presented with the snapshot restore dialog for restoring it, and can then choose to restore in full or in part by manually selecting individual items.

> If a snapshot is significantly large, it can be faster and more efficient to make use of the Samba add-on in order to transfer files to the `/backup` directory. 

Reviewer: Give a hint of what large is, ie >1GB.

Explain what the user should do after it transfers a snapshot to the `/backup` directory,

### How long do snapshots take?

The length of time it takes to create or restore snapshots will depend on how much you have to compress or decompress. 

> A large database file or a collection of camera media captured by MotionEye will take longer to decompress (the default database is the sqllite home-assistant_v2.db in the config directory). See the [`recorder`](https://www.home-assistant.io/components/recorder/) integration page for options to keep your database data down to a size that won't cause issues. Note the keep days, purge interval, and include/exclude options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're looking to slim down your snapshots, check if your configuration contains a large database file (`home-assistant_v2.db` in the config directory). See the [`recorder`](https://www.home-assistant.io/components/recorder/) integration page for options to keep your database data down to a size that won't cause issues. 
```

> When the restore is complete, you will lose connection to the UI and it will return just as though you had restarted Home Assistant.

Reviewer: This should be moved to previous section ?

> ### Creating snapshots using the custom CLI

Reviewer: custom CLI?

1. `ha sn list` - lists snapshots and their slugnames
2. `ha sn restore slugname` - restores a specific snapshot
3. `ha sn new --name nameofsnapshot` - create a snapshot

Use `ha help` to see more info.

### Copying your snapshots to another location

> The snapshots won't be very convenient if they are on the device which you cannot access. Copy them off in batches manually from /backup on occasion. Or even better, create an automation to handle that, or make use of an add-on like Google Drive backup or Dropbox Sync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You usually need a snapshot in case your system has crashed. If you just store them on the crashed device, you won't be able to access it. We recommend that you manually copy them from `/backup` to another machine on occasion. Or even better, create an automation to handle that, or make use of one of the following add-ons:
```

---

This section will provide guides to some common tasks and information which you will need in order to run, maintain, and edit your Home Assistant OS system. For further details on any particular subject, make sure to refer to the documentation for specific add-ons or topics listed here.

## Configuring access to files

Your Home Assistant Operating server includes two repositories by default: The official core add-on repository, and the community add-on repository. All of the add-ons mentioned here can be installed by navigating to the add-on store using Supervisor > Add-on Store in the UI.

One of the first things to take care of after installing Home Assistant OS is to provide yourself access to files. There are several add-ons commonly used for this, and most users employ a mix of various add-ons. Default directories on the host are mapped to the add-ons so that they can be accessed by the services any particular add-on might provide. On the host system these directories exist on the `/data` partition at `/mnt/data/supervisor/`. 

Using any of the add-ons listed below,the following directories are made available for access:

> - addons

Reviewer: @frenck how do we ignore the spell check for these lines?

- backup
- config
- media
- share
- ssl

---

### Installing and using the Samba add-on

The Samba add-on creates smb shares which can be accessed from another computer. You can also edit files using the editor of your preference from your client computer. This add-on can be installed from the add-on store's official repository.

To configure the Samba add-on, you only need to set a user and password of your choice on the configuration page, save, and then start the add-on. The add-on will not start without setting a password!

To connect to the Samba server from another device, you will use the IP address or hostname of your server. Either of these can be found on the Supervisor > System > page of your UI within the Host card.

For connecting from Windows 10, you can enter the IP address or hostname in File Explorer's address bar with two backslashes, as shown in the example screenshot.

> ![explorer address bar](TBD image of file explorer address bar.jpg)
> 

Reviewer: Removing this so it's ok to merge. Pic can be added later.
```suggestion
```

You should then be prompted for the credentials you entered in the Samba add-on configuration. You also have the option of having the credentials stored so that you do not need to enter them again. After that, you'll have access to the directories which you can then mount as a drive or pin to Quick Access.

For OS X, connecting to the shares is a matter of using the Finder menu > Go > Connect to Server...
You would then enter the IP address or hostname of your Home Assistant OS instance as `smb://your.ha.ip.address` or `smb://homeassistant` and enter your credentials when prompted.

---

### Installing and using the SSH add-on (requires enabling advanced mode for the HA user)

> The Terminal & SSH add-on provides access over an ssh connection, and also inludes nano and vi editors. It can be installed from the add-on store's Official add-on repository after enabling advanced mode for your Home Assistant user's profile. Addtionally, this add-on provides access to the Home Assistant Command Line Interface (CLI) which provides custom commands for checking logs, stopping and starting Home Assistant and add-ons, creating/restoring snapshots, and more. (See [Home Assistant via Command Line](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/commandline/) for further info). The Terminal & SSH add-on does *not* provide access to the underlying host file system. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Terminal & SSH add-on provides access over an SSH connection, and also inludes nano and vi editors. It can be installed from the add-on store's Official add-on repository after enabling advanced mode for your Home Assistant user's profile. Addtionally, this add-on provides access to the Home Assistant Command Line Interface (CLI) which provides custom commands for checking logs, stopping and starting Home Assistant and add-ons, creating/restoring snapshots, and more. (See [Home Assistant via Command Line](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/commandline/) for further info). The Terminal & SSH add-on does *not* provide access to the underlying host file system. 
```

To use the add-on, enter a password or public key on its configuration page, then save and start the add-on. 

> The Terminal & SSH addon also provides a web terminal which allows you to access a terminal via the Home Assistant user interface. In order to access from an ssh client, a port needs to be entered in the network section of the add-on's configuration page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Terminal & SSH add-on also provides a web terminal which allows you to access a terminal via the Home Assistant user interface. In order to access from an ssh client, a port needs to be entered in the network section of the add-on's configuration page.
```

---

### Installing and using the Visual Studio Code (VSC) add-on

> The Visual Studio Code add-on provides access through a feature packed web-based version of the Visual Studio Code (VSC) editor and currently only supports AMD64 and aarch64/ARM64 machines. This add-on can be installed from the Community add-on repository. The add-on also provides access to the Home Assistant Command Line Interface (CLI) using VSC's built in terminal, which allows for checking logs, stopping and starting Home Assistant and add-ons, creating/restoring snapshots, and more. (See [Home Assistant via Command Line](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/commandline/) for further info).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Visual Studio Code add-on provides access through a feature packed web-based version of the Visual Studio Code editor and currently only supports AMD64 and aarch64/ARM64 machines. This add-on can be installed in the add-on store from the Community add-on repository. The add-on also provides access to the Home Assistant Command Line Interface (CLI) using VSC's built in terminal, which allows for checking logs, stopping and starting Home Assistant and add-ons, creating/restoring snapshots, and more. (See [Home Assistant via Command Line](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/commandline/) for further info).
```

There is no configuration required for editing files within your /config directory. In order to enable access to other directories, it is necessary to edit the add-on's configuration from its configuration tab. See the add-on documentation for details. 

---

### Installing and using the File Editor add-on

> A more basic and light weight alternative to Visual Studio Code, the File Editor add-on provides access through Hass-Configurator, which is a web-based filesystem-browser and text-editor. YAML files are automatically checked for syntax errors while editing. This add-on can be installed from the Official add-on repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A more basic and light weight alternative to Visual Studio Code, the File Editor add-on provides access through Hass-Configurator, which is a web-based filesystem-browser and text-editor. YAML files are automatically checked for syntax errors while editing. This add-on can be installed via the add-on store from the official add-on repository.
```

There is no configuration required for editing files within your /config directory. In order to enable access to further directories, editing the add-on configuration is required. See the add-on documentation for details. 

---

## Home Assistant OS Snapshots

> Snapshots are a backup of your Home Assistant and addon data and configuration which are stored in a compressed archive file (.tar). Snapshots are made from the Supervisor Snapshot panel. There is also a service available which allows you to trigger the creation of a snapshot from an automation. Backups are stored in the /backup directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Snapshots are a backup of your Home Assistant and add-on data and configuration. They are stored in a compressed archive file (.tar). Snapshots are made from the Supervisor Snapshot panel. There is also a service available which allows you to trigger the creation of a snapshot from an automation. Backups are stored in the /backup directory.
```

5. Click "Create" to begin the snapshot.

### Restoring a Snapshot on a new install

You can make use of snapshots which you have copied off of a previous install to restore to a new installation during the onboarding process. Follow the link at the bottom of the account creation page to upload your snapshot from the previous installation.

For restoring a snapshot at any other time, vist the Supervisor Snapshot panel in your UI and use the following steps:

1. Select "Upload Snapshot" from the icon in the upper right of the page.
2. Click on the folder icon to navigate to your snapshot .tar file and select it.

When the upload is completed, you will be presented with the snapshot restore dialog for restoring it, and can then choose to restore in full or in part by manually selecting individual items.

If the snapshot you are uploading is more than 1GB in size, it can be faster and more efficient to make use of the Samba add-on in order to transfer files to the `/backup` directory.

The length of time it takes to create or restore snapshots will depend on how much you have to compress or decompress. 

> If you're looking to slim down your snapshots, check if your configuration contains a large database file (`home-assistant_v2.db` in the config directory). See the [`recorder`](https://www.home-assistant.io/components/recorder/) integration page for options to keep your database data down to a size that won't cause issues. Note the keep days, purge interval, and include/exclude options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're looking to slim down your snapshots, check if your configuration directory contains a large database file (`home-assistant_v2.db`). See the [`recorder`](https://www.home-assistant.io/components/recorder/) integration page for options to keep your database data down to a size that won't cause issues. Note the keep days, purge interval, and include/exclude options.
```

> When the restore is complete, you will lose connection to the UI and it will return just as though you had restarted Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the restore is complete, Home Assistant will restart to apply the new settings. You will lose the connection to the UI and it will return once the restart is completed.
```

---

> title: "Home Assistant OS Common Tasks"

Reviewer: We should make sure this page is linked from the navigation.

description: "Guides for common tasks when using Home Assistant OS"
---

> 

Reviewer 3: Missing introduction on this page. What is this page about?

## Configuring access to files

One of the first things to take care of after installing Home Assistant OS is to provide yourself access to files. There are several add-ons commonly used for this, and most users employ a mix of a handful of add-ons. This section will describe some common choices.

---

### Installing and using the Samba add-on

Your Home Assistant OS install has default directories which are mapped to the add-ons so that they can be accessed by the services a particular add-on might provide. The Samba add-on exposes all of these as smb shares which can then easily be accessed from another computer. You can also edit files using the editor of your preference from your client computer.

> The following directories are made available:

Reviewer: Any reason this is part of the Samba add-on info and not part of the intro to accessing files ?

- addons
- backup
- config
- media
- share
- ssl

On the host system these exist on the `/data` partition at `/mnt/data/supervisor/`.
Configuring the add-on is straight-forward. You only need to set a user and password of your choice on the configuration page, save, and then start the add-on. The add-on will not start without setting a password! The other options can be left as-is for the majority of users.

`interface:` - By default, this will use the currently configured network interface and does not need to be changed.

`allow_hosts:` - This list of allowed networks covers the majority of home networks and does not usually need to be changed.

`veto_files:` - These are files (mostly generated by OS X) which will not be passed into share directories

- ._*
- .DS_Store
- Thumbs.db
- icon?

> - .Trashes

Reviewer: I think that we can just link to the Samba add-on docs for this since it's something with sane defaults and so users shouldn't change it.

> One issue many Windows 10 users run in to is that older versions of SMB are disabled by default due to security issues. This prevents users from browsing the network from file explorer in a way which might be expected. While this *could* be resolved by enabling SMBv1 on Windows, it is not advisable. Instead, you can enter the ip address or hostname of your Home Assistant instance in File Explorer's address bar with two backslashes, as shown in the example screenshot.

Reviewer: Let's not mention an option and then tell users not to do it. Let's just not mention it at all.

> ![explorer address bar](TBD image of file explorer address bar.jpg)

Reviewer: Todo

> You should then be prompted for the credentials you entered in the Samba add-on configuration. You also have the option of having the credentials stored so that you do not need to enter them again. After that, you'll have access to the directories which you can then mount as a drive or pin to Quick Access.

Reviewer: This makes it sound like only Windows 10 users require credentials?

> ![directories](TBD image of directories.jpg)

Reviewer: Todo

Reviewer: I think that we can skip this image, not perse necessary?

For OS X, connecting to the shares is a matter of using the Finder menu > Go > Connect to Server...
You would then enter the ip address of your Home Assistant OS instance as `smb://your.ha.ip.address`

---

### Installing and using the SSH add-on (requires enabling advanced mode for the HA user)

> Your Home Assistant OS install has default directories which are mapped to the add-ons so that they can be accessed by the services a particular add-on might provide. The Terminal & SSH add-on provides access to these directories over an ssh connection, and also access to nano and vi editors.  The add-on also provides access to the Home Assistant Command Line Interface (CLI) which provides custom commands for checking logs, stopping and starting Home Assistant and add-ons, creating/restoring snapshots, and more. (See [Home Assistant via Command Line](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/commandline/) for further info). The Terminal & SSH add-on does *not* provide access to the underlying host file system.

Reviewer: This first sentence is duplicate from previous section ?

To use the add-on, enter a password or public key on the configuration page, then save and start the add-on.

By default the Terminal & SSH addon provides a web terminal which can be added as an item to your side-panel. In order to access from an ssh client, a port needs to be entered in the network section of the add-on's configuration page.

---

> ### Installing and using VSC add-on

Reviewer: VSC?

> Your Home Assistant OS install has default directories which are mapped to the add-ons so that they can be accessed by the services a particular add-on might provide. The Visual Studio Code add-on provides access to these directories through a web-based version of VSC. The add-on also provides access to the Home Assistant Command Line Interface (CLI) using VSC's terminal, which allows for checking logs, stopping and starting Home Assistant and add-ons, creating/restoring snapshots, and more. (See [Home Assistant via Command Line](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/commandline/) for further info). The Visual Studio Code add-on does *not* provide access to the underlying host file system.

Reviewer: First sentence is duplicate.

---

> ### Installing and using File Editor add-on

Reviewer: This is empty?

---

## Home Assistant OS Snapshots

> Snapshots are easily made in Home Assistant OS and are also available as services which can be used in automations. They can be created from the UI or the CLI (see below) and are stored in the /backup directory.

Reviewer: Introduce what a snapshot is.

A full snapshot includes the following directories:

* config
* share
* add-ons (these are manually installed or created add-ons, and not those installed from the store)
* ssl
* media

They also include a compressed file for each installed add-on containing the add-on's version, config settings, and other data if any.

### Making a Snapshot from the UI

1. Go to Supervisor > Snapshots in the UI
2. Provide a name for the snapshot.

> 3. Choose full or partial.

Reviewer: Explain what partial is.

4. Choose to password protect or not.

> > Warning - Password protected snapshots cannot easily be browsed outside of Home Assistant OS

Reviewer: This doesn't render as a proper warning. Also probably shouldn't be a warning this big, just add it to step 4.

> 5. The only progress indicator at the moment is via the logs at the Supervisor > System page in the UI (or `ha su logs` in the CLI).

Reviewer: This is not a step. We should just make this a paragraph together with step 6.

Reviewer: Maybe a step 5 could be to "click create snapshot" ?

6. To update the snapshots page in order to see current snapshots, use the reload icon in the upper right of the page.

### Restoring a Snapshot on a new install

> Restoring a snapshot on a fresh install of Home Assistant OS requires that you first upload the snapshot to the backup directory on the new instance. There is no way to upload snapshots from the snapshot dashboard at this time so the first thing to do is install and configure an add-on of your preference in order to provide access to the `backup` directory. Samba, File Editor, or VSC are all good choices for this.

Reviewer: No need to mention things that are currently not possible. Let's keep it simple and talk about what is possible.

Reviewer: Instead of saying what are good choices, maybe let's stick with Samba as it's probably easiest ?

After uploading to the `backup` directory, visit the snapshot page in the UI and reload the page using the icon in the upper right of the page to make the uploaded files visible. From there you can select your snapshot and then choose any or all parts of that snapshot to restore.

> > Note: Before restoring third-party add-ons, add their repositories to the add-on store page first! These are any add-ons which are not in the official repo or the community add-on repo. Nothing bad will happen, but those add-ons won't get restored. You can always add the repos and then go back and do a partial restore of the missing add-ons.

Reviewer: This sentence needs an official note box. 

Also I feel like this paragraph should be restructured. People don't need to read it unless they have such add-ons, so the first sentence should mention for who it's relevant.

### How long do snapshots take?

> The length of time it takes to create or restore snapshots will depend on how much you have to compress or decompress. A large database file or a collection of camera media captured by MotionEye will take longer to decompress (the default database is the sqllite home-assistant_v2.db in the config directory).

Reviewer: This last sentence seems more related to next paragraph, let's include it there.

See the [`recorder`](https://www.home-assistant.io/components/recorder/) integration page for ways to keep your database data down to a size that won't cause issues. Note the keep days, purge interval, and include/exclude options.

When the restore is complete, you will lose connection to the UI and it will return just as though you had restarted Home Assistant. It can be a good idea to do an additional full reboot as well especially if add-ons appear to be missing from the restore. You can reboot from the Supervisor > System > Host card in the UI.

> ### Creating snapshots using the cli

Reviewer: Should we even mention this in common tasks, or should we just promote the usage of the CLI in general?

Author: This is part of the common task of making snapshots, but one of the provided methods is how I was seeing it.

1. `ha sn list` - lists snapshots and their slugnames
2. `ha sn restore slugname` - restores a specific snapshot
3. `ha sn new --name nameofsnapshot` - create a snapshot

Use `ha help` to see more info.

> ### More automation and usage examples can be found [here](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/hassio-0-61-snapshot-service/39690/3?u=cogneato)

Reviewer: This is a weird headline ?

> ### Remove your snapshots to another location!

Reviewer: Remove or move?

The snapshots won't be very convenient if they are on the device which you cannot access. Copy them off in batches manually from /backup on occasion. Or even better, create an automation to handle that using the examples above, or make use of an add-on like Google Drive backup or Dropbox Sync which can handle much of that for you!

[Hass.io Google Drive Backup](https://github.com/sabeechen/hassio-google-drive-backup)

[Dropbox Sync](https://github.com/danielwelch/hassio-dropbox-sync)

[Samba backup](https://github.com/thomasmauerer/hassio-addons/tree/master/samba-backup)

> [Remote Backup (uses scp)](https://github.com/overkill32/hassio-remote-backup)

Reviewer: Style this as a list.

---

> ## Working with Audio

Reviewer: This seems unfinished. Let's remove it?
